# AI-Image-Detector Comparison

### Inentions:

The intention of this presentation is to compare various CNN methods in order to detect AI in images.


### Introduction
The evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) is increasingly growing- from deepfakes to doctored audio- it’s difficult for the average computer user to differentiate between real and fake in most cases of media and art with the naked eye. Over the years image detecting models such as, Histogram of Oriented Gradients and Haas Cascade were used for image and face detection. But as computing power became more abundant programmers moved towards deep learning neural models like Residual Network and DenseNet that use bottleneck structuring. But computer vision and classification still has its challenges. For instance, overcoming data issues or imbalances in classes, bias, occlusion and other imaging problems along with computation cost. With that being said, this study is aimed to program and compare two prominent convolutional neural networks (CNN’s) that can classify images of all categories. Convolutional Neural Networks are a specific type of deep learning model that is able to automatically detect shapes, objects, patterns and other features within the pixels of still images and videos [1]. For this research project, EfficientNetB0 and Visual Geometry Group 16 (VGG16) are used to classify the difference between human created artwork, photo images, and other forms of art versus those artwork generated by artificial intelligence. Both networks are pre-trained on ImageNet samples- is a large database that has been imperative in the progression of deep learning research as well as computer vision. ImageNet contains about 1.2 million images belonging to approximately 1000 different categories or classes. While originally, ImageNet has well over 14 million samples, these models being trained on a smaller subset of samples levels the playing field and allows us to fairly compare their efficiencies [2]. In this study I hypothesize that EfficientNetB0 will outperform VGG16 not only with accuracy scores including but not limited to FL, AUC-ROC, precision, and recall but in speed in terms of runtimes. 

### References
[1]	IBM, “Convolutional Neural Networks,” Ibm.com, Oct. 06, 2021. https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/convolutional-neural-networks
[2]	J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “ImageNet: A large-scale hierarchical image database,” 2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Jun. 2009, doi: https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr.2009.5206848.